Introduction
============

Role-Playing Games (the real-life kind, where you actually talk to other human
beings and imagine the entire universe in your head) are a lot of fun. Coming
up with neat new magic items, new skills and bonuses, spells, and arcane rules
are also a lot of fun.

What is not fun is endlessly rolling dice and looking up tables and
calculating numbers and then trying to remember which rules apply in a
particular situation. Players may have to roll thirty dice before they can
dispatch a single goblin, making encounters with a lot of goblins very boring.

Computers are ubiquitous. And they are really good at what they do, which is
applying logical rules mercilessly. But they really stink at communicating
effectively with human beings, although they can be a tool to make that
communication more effective.

What would happen if we combined the two? There are really two possibilities.

One, you end up with RPGs, the computer video game version. These are pointless
and dull. This genre has given us new meanings for the words "grind", "kite",
"aggro", and much more. Human imagination is much more powerful than the
processing core of any machine, and so after a while any computer RPG becomes
nothing more than just a tool to cheat and exploit. The only worthy opponent
for one human mind is another human mind, as we have learned by experience.

Two, you create something that could make real-life role-playing a
lot more fun. The computer could supplement, but not replace, the role-playing
experience. It could keep track of all the minutae to the finest detail, but
leave the story-telling to the players and the game master. It could apply the
most complicated rules in the blink of an eye, but leave the players to
imagine how their characters develop.

There are a lot of obstacles in the way.

For starters, publishers make their money by getting people to buy their
books. In order to keep making money, they have to protect their IP, and that
means they have to control who is allowed to write what software for their
system. So building on top of an existing system is out of the question
(unless said system is licensed appropriately.)

Of course, there is the programming hurdle, both of creating a tool and
implementing the rules of the RPG in the tool. But that's something
programmers are pretty good at, and free software in particular.

Thus, this project. The goal is two-fold. One, create an RPG designed to be
played by humans, but implemented by machine. Two, create the tools to
implements those rules. And finally, make it accessible to interested people
so that they can expand it to meet their needs.
